---
layout: paper
title: "Beyond Constant Curvature: A New Mechanics Model for Unidirectional Notched-Tube Continuum Wrists"
year: "2021"
shortref: "Pacheco <i>et al.</i> JMRR 2021"
#nickname: nobel-prize-arnold
journal: "Journal of Medical Robotics Research"
#volume:
#issue:
#pages:
authors: "Pacheco NE, Gafford JB, Atalla MA, Webster III RJ, Fichera L"
image: /assets/images/papers/jmrr-2021-cover.png
redirect_from:
fulltext:
pdf:
pdflink: https://doi.org/10.1142/S2424905X21400043
github:
pmid:
pmcid:
f1000:
doi: "10.1142/S2424905X21400043"
dryad_doi:
figshare_doi:
altmetric_id:
category: paper
published: true
embargo: false
peerreview: true
review: false
tags:
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Abstract
This paper presents a new mechanics model for unidirectional notched-tube continuum wrists, a class of mechanisms frequently used to implement distal steering in needle-sized surgical robotic instruments. Existing kinematic models available for these devices are based on the simplifying assumption that, during actuation, all the notches undergo the same amount of deflection, so that the shape of a wrist can be approximated by an arc of constant curvature. This approach is analytically attractive, but, as we show in this paper, it can sometimes fail to provide good tracking accuracy. In this article, we provide a new model that relaxes the assumption above, and we report experimental evidence showing its superior accuracy. We model wrist deflection using Castigliano’s second theorem, with the addition of a capstan friction term that accounts for frictional losses on the actuation tendon. Because notched-tube  wrists  are  typically  made  of  Nickel-Titanium  (Nitinol),  which  has  nonlinear  stress-strain  characteristics,  we  use  a technique to obtain a local linearized approximation of the material modulus, suitable for use in the deflection model. The result of our  modeling  is  a  system  of  nonlinear  equations  that  can  be  solved  numerically  to  predict  the  wrist  configuration  based  on the applied actuation force. Experimental results on physical specimens show that this improved model provides a more accurate estimate of wrist kinematics than prior models assuming constant curvature bending.
