---
layout: paper
title: "Light in the Larynx: a Miniaturized Robotic Optical Fiber for In-office Laser Surgery of the Vocal Folds"
year: "2022"
shortref: "Chiluisa et al. IROS 2022"
journal: "IEEE IROS 2022"
#volume:
#issue:
#pages:
authors: "Chiluisa AJ, Pacheco NE, Do HS, Tougas RM, Minch EV, Mihaleva R, Shen Y, Liu Y, Carroll TL, Fichera L"
#image: /assets/images/papers/hamlyn-2022-cover.jpg
redirect_from:
fulltext:
pdf: https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.13165
#pdflink: https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.10340
github:
pmid:
pmcid:
f1000:
#doi: "10.1002/cnm.3574"
dryad_doi:
figshare_doi:
altmetric_id:
category: paper
published: true
embargo: false
peerreview: true
review: false
tags:
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Abstract
This letter reports the design, construction, and experimental validation of a novel hand-held robot for in-office laser surgery of the vocal folds. In-office endoscopic laser surgery is an emerging trend in Laryngology: It promises to deliver the same patient outcomes of traditional surgical treatment (i.e., in the operating room), at a fraction of the cost. Unfortunately, office procedures can be challenging to perform; the optical fibers used for laser delivery can only emit light forward in a line-of-sight fashion, which severely limits anatomical access. The robot we present in this letter aims to overcome these challenges. The end effector of the robot is a steerable laser fiber, created through the combination of a thin optical fiber (0.225 mm) with a tendon-actuated Nickel-Titanium notched sheath that provides bending. This device can be seamlessly used with most commercially available endoscopes, as it is sufficiently small (1.1 mm) to pass through a working channel. To control the fiber, we propose a compact actuation unit that can be mounted on top of the endoscope handle, so that, during a procedure, the operating physician can operate both the endoscope and the steerable fiber with a single hand. We report simulation and phantom experiments demonstrating that the proposed device substantially enhances surgical access compared to current clinical fibers.
